Hamper is an IRC bot to amuse us.

If this looks like a dead project, check out the develop branch, where we do
our day to day work. We are following [Git Flow][gitflow], so there won't be
many commits on the master branch.

[gitflow]: http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/

Installation
============
You can install the latest official version of hamper from the [Python Package
Index][pypi]. I suggest using `pip`, but I am told `easy_install` will work as
well.

    sudo pip install hamper

If you want the git version of hamper, then checkout out the develop branch,
and run

    sudo python setup.py install

[pypi]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi

Dependencies
------------
These dependencies will be taken care of automatically if you install with
`pip`. They are only a concern if you install from git.

-   Twisted
-   SQLAlchemy
-   PyYaml
-   The plugin loader of [Bravo][bravo] (included)
-   Exocet (included)

[bravo]: https://github.com/MostAwesomeDude/bravo

Configuration
=============
Make a file named `hamper.conf`. This should be a YAML file containing these
fields:

-   `nickname`
-   `channels`
-   `server`
-   `port`
-   `db` - A database URL as described [here][dburl]

For an example check out `hamper.conf.dist`.

[dburl]: http://www.sqlalchemy.org/docs/core/engines.html#sqlalchemy.create_engine

Usage
=====
Run hamper from a directory containing `hamper.conf`. If you installed it with
pip, you can just say `hamper`, but if you are running from git, you need to
make sure that hamper is on your python path. I like to use this command:

    PYTHONPATH="~/git/hamper" python2 ~/git/hamper/hamper/scripts/hamper
    
Plugin Development
==================
Read `hamper/plugins/friendly.py`. Add a file to `hamper/plugins`, and write
plugins in it. Don't forget to create an instance of each one at the bottom.

###Credits

Code and design:

-   Mike Cooper <mythmon@gmail.com>

Docs fixes:

-   Spencer Krum <krum.spenecr@gmail.com>

Ideas, but no code yet:

-   Daniel Thornton <merthel@gmail.com>
-   Jordan Evans <evans.jordan.m@gmail.com>
